OOPS:
Abstraction:

The main advantages of Abstraction are:
Abstraction:

Hide internal implementation and just highlight the set of services, is called abstraction. By using abstract classes and interfaces we can implement abstraction.

Example:

 By using ATM GUI screen bank people are highlighting the set of services what they are offering without highlighting internal implementation.

1) We can achieve security as we are not highlighting our internal implementation.
   
2) Enhancement will become very easy because without effecting end user we can able to perform any type of changes in our internal system.

3) It provides more flexibility to the end user to use system very easily.

4) It improves maintainability of the application.

Inheritance:
Inheritance is a mechanism by which one object acquires all the properties and behavior anothor object of another class.It is used for Code Reusability and Method Overriding.the idea behind inherutance in java that you can create new class built upon existing classes. When you inherit from an existing class, you can reuse methods and fields of parent class.Moreover, you can add new methods and fields in your current class also. 
Inheritance represents the IS-A relationship which is also known as a parent-child relationship

Encapsulation:
It is the process of Encapsulating data and corresponding the methods into a single module.

Encapsulation in java is a process of wrapping the code and data togrther into a single unit,
Example, capsule which is mixed of severla medicines.

Java Bean class is the example of a fully encapsulated class.

Advantage:
By providing only a setter or getter method,you can make a class read only or write only.

Datahiding:Our internal data should not go out directly that is outside person can't access our internal data directly. By using private modifier we can implement data hiding.

It is way to achieve data hiding in java because other class will not be able to access the data through the private data members.

So, it is easy and fast to create an encapsulated class in Java.

polymorphism:
Polymorphism in java is concept by which we can perform a single action in different ways.

"ploy" means many and "morphs" means forms.

There are two types of polymorphism in java:compile-time polymorphism and runtime polymorphism.we can perform polymorphis, in java by method overloading and method overriding.
